# SPAmixLocalPlus

A new method SPAmixLocalPlus needs to be refactored to std cpp/eigen/bh in current branch.
The method is unpublish, it is now only implemented by Rcpp in the "develop" branch of the repo.
It is run by the following procedure. Please first read the code.

```R
sp_grm_grab <- data.table::fread("examples/SparseGRM.txt")
null_resid <- data.table::fread("examples/simuResid_2cols.txt")

admix_dosage <-"ref_code/spamixlocalp/simuAncestry"
phi_out <- "ref_code/spamixlocalp/phi_"
out <- "ref_code/spamixlocalp/out_"

SPAmixLocalPlus.EstimatePhi(
  GRM = sp_grm_grab,
  dosagePrefix = admix_dosage,
  haploPrefix = admix_dosage,
  ancIdx = c(1, 2),
  SampleIDs = null_resid$IID,
  phiOutputPrefix = phiOutputPrefix,
  MAF_cutoff = 0.01
)

result_lst <- SPAmixLocalPlus.Marker(
  resid = null_resid$Residual,
  subjData = null_resid$IID,
  dosagePrefix = admix_dosage,
  haploPrefix = NULL,  # Uses dosagePrefix if NULL
  phiPrefix = phi_out,
  ancIdx = c(1, 2),
  outPrefix = out
)

```

The method is an ancestry specific gwas. The input data is ancestry specific, instead of one set of bfile.
For each ancestry, input files is a pair of dosage (alt allele count) and hapcount (all allele count) files.
For each individual on one marker locus, the hapcount on all ancestry should have sum == 2; the dosage sum should <=2.

The method need to estimate a set of phis first, which is intuitively a population specific sparse grm.
Here the phi-calculation is quite slow and mem wasting.

Then, do gwas on each ancestry with a spamix-like procedure. It does a cct meta analysis at the end.

Please tell me, if my description is right, because I need to make sure I understand what the method do.
Currently the input file is low efficient, and I'm thinking to convert to plink bfile-like format. The haplo/dosage are stored as bed-like format, and all the input files share one .fam and one .bim. Or even further, all the haplo/dosage can be stored in one bed-like format.

##

The admixed dosage is from phase vcf, so it's always hard-coded.
Since the dosages of ancestries are generated by one run, and always used at the same time.
So, all ancestry dosages and haplo-counts should be in one file with one .bed and one .fam carrie sample and marker info.
It needs magic bases to take some meta data? The 00 01 10 11 is better to be same definited with plink bfile? Or considering the following usage, is there better design? What will be the sturcture for the 2k tracks? is it support random access as fast as plink bile? is it better to create a new object and keep current plinkdtat and plinkcuror dedicated for plink bfile? In addition, I needs an --extract snp.list option just like the plink2 option for both standard plink bfile handel and the admix-bfile. Is admix-bfile a good option name? suggest.


Please implement the phi-calculation. The user cmd is

```sh
build/grab \
  --cal-phi \
  --admix-bfile examples/admix_bfile_prefix \
  --sp-grm-plink2 examples/simuPLINK.grm.sp \
  --out examples/admix_bfile_prefix.phi


build/grab \
  --null-resid examples/simuResid_2cols.txt \
  --admix-bfile examples/admix_bfile_prefix \
  --admix-phi examples/admix_bfile_prefix.phi \
  --extract examples/snps.prune.in \ # a one column snp
  --out tmp/SPAmixLocalPlus_output
```

Please implement the plan from phase A to D.
The phi is
